Awesome that's it,
we have reached the end.
Thank you so much, for
this course I hope you found
something interesting in this course.
So just a recap of things
that we looked at, so
we looked at using TypeScript
with React Native.
We did a recap of core components and
React Hooks.
We added a bottom navigation bar, so
you've added a bottom navigation bar.
We looked at JavaScript earlier versus
native libraries in React Native.
We used React Context to
store global app state.
We learned how to persist data across
app launches using async storage.
We looked at a rendering images
locally and remotely via URL.
We added SVGs in React Native for
our bottom tabs.
We added custom fonts.
We created animations using layout
animation as well as custom animations
using Reanimated 2.
We added an app icon and a splash screen.
And we also did a whirlwind
intro into data visualization.
So where to next?
Well, we have only really scraped
the surface when it comes to animations in
React Native, and I think that's
one of the most exciting parts.
So now that you have the fundamentals and
you have the docs,
here's some things that you could try.
You could try to group the items
in the History tab by day, and
then render the days using a draw,
so that each day is a draw.
And then when you tap on it,
it will expand to show the actual entries.
You could create a component to fade or
scale in,
when an image is loaded by a URL.
So this is a very common use case if
you're loading something via URL,
need to cool the onload event and
then fade in so
you don't have the white
image while you're loading.
And you could try using an animated
header for a scrollable page.
So this will be using
the animated gesture handler so
when you scroll down on a page you
could have a header pop up or change.
Another thing that we didn't really
touch on was haptic feedback.
So haptic feedback is vibration.
And it's often used to make
apps kind of nicer to use.
You'll see a lot if you like a tweet,
for example.
And also sounds, so playing sounds
when something good happens.
So there are two libraries here
that you could try using, so
React Native haptic feedback and
React Native sound.
So for example,
you could add a haptic feedback
effect when the user selects mute.
And also, I've only given one example
of using a victory chart in our app.
But there are so
many more charts available and
different ways of displaying your data.
So you can get creative and
try visualizing your data,
in a different kind of chart,
maybe a bar chart.
And finally, thanks so
much for taking my calls.
I would be find it informative and
helpful in your React Native journey.
>> Would you be able to use
React Native for game development?
>> Yes [LAUGH].
So, it depends on the games, I think.
So for like 3D platformers,
you would use something
like unity which you can
run now on mobile apps.
But if it was maybe a gesture Extra
boost app or you could definitely do it.
One of my colleagues actually built
an app, which is drag and drop based.
So you could do things like for
example you wanted to do a sudoku,
that was in React Native or if you wanted
to do something where you like drag items
the right position, that would work.
So it's just like tools for the job.
But if it was something
like to do with 3D,
like I personally don't know
the tools to do it at the moment
>> About testing libraries?
So, for end to end testing,
detox is kind of the go to.
So, for
testing like normal JavaScript stuff,
you would still use jest
it will still work.
So, most of your testing on
the front end would be using jest.
But for end to end you, would use detox,
detox.react native, there you go, and
that's kind of the go to see still
write your tests in JavaScript,
but then you can run them random on CI and
run them end to end.
>> Could you give an overview
of authentication strategies for
React Native?
>> Yes, so that's something I was
hoping to cover in this course,
but didn't quite get to.
Okay, so with authentication,
so one of the things is,
Like, where do you authenticate and when.
So if your app has a completely
different view for
users that are authenticated and
then users that aren't authenticated,
and what you would do is
at the very root level, so
here before you hide the splash screen,
you would decide whether
the user should see the logged in flow,
or the logged out flow.
So, you could for example, do if you
store your users token in 18 storage or
secure storage, you would see,
okay, if there is no token,
they're probably not logged in, but
they're definitely not logged in.
So, show them the locked out view.
Otherwise show them locked in view.
So, that would be one way of doing it.
On the current app that I'm working on,
it's a little bit frustrating
that you have a, the app is usable if
you're not logged in, but then you
can choose to log in in the middle and
then everything should still work.
Like the same way and
the UI looks really similar.
So the way we handled it is
that we have an auth context.
So an auth provider, that basically
handles like whether you're logged in,
what's the current user?
Like what's state, and
then it's handled on a global level.
>> If I have an SVG tag,
can I add on click interactivity and
stuff directly to the element or
>> So you can, I wouldn't recommend it.
It's a little bit, so we actually like,
again in a recent project,
we have some complex SVG is going on where
we need to tap in the middle of an SVG.
And on Android in particular,
it created some unexpected behaviors,
and the own press wasn't always toggled.
So actually what we ended up doing,
is we absolute positioned
that pressable area on top of
the SVG at the right position.
So you will have the SVG, and then
the button is absolute position on top
of it that will handle the on press event,
because we used to animate it.
And, yeah,
it just wasn't working as we wanted but
in general it is supported like
there is an on press event on SVGs.
>> Any deployment pipeline or
deployment tools React Native
that we should be aware of?
So I almost exclusively have been using
App Center, which is Microsoft Epicenter,
and basically it is,
I will say that it is slow, especially for
iOS I think the current current build for
iOS it takes like 30 or
40 minutes, but
Android it's like 15 minutes.
So it's not ideal however for like a paid,
subscription it's like 30 dollars or
30 pounds a month,
which is like affordable for
a CI service for unlimited builds.
And basically yeah,
I would use Epicenter, most of time.
There's they also have a free tier, but
I think it's only 60 minutes a month,
so it's not usually enough.
And I would always, always,
always build on CI rather than locally.
So even though you can
obviously build locally,
just to manage the certificates and
build signing, both on iOS and
Android, just to make sure that you
have the right environment variables,
it's just much safer to
set it up once on the CI,
and then you know you're
having a consistent behavior.
You can also actually set this
up fully on GitHub actions.
So GitHub action support Max, so
you can set up your pipeline to
build fully on GitHub actions.
So some of the projects in
my company actually do that.
So most of them are either
GitHub actions or Epicenter.
>> Do you ever use a WebView or
linking, especially with like payments,
with PayPal, that kind of thing?
>> Yeah.
React Native WebView is pretty awesome.
And sometimes I mean, I think it
depends like if you're doing something
from scratch, and it's the company
does their first app, they've never
had anything else, and you have free
rein to build everything from scratch.
Obviously, it's nice not to use WebViews,
but a lot of the time especially for
big companies, like not everything
is available via an API.
So you'll have elements or
application that you'll have
to render within a WebView.
So it's not ideal because it can take you
outside of the kind of flow that the user
is posing, and also you don't have
control over the styling of the WebView.
So it might look not the same
as the rest of your app.
But, sometimes you have to.
And yeah, I've used
React Native WebView quite a bit.
>> It looks like there's one
last one about the path for
upgrading React Native with new
versions of Android and iOS.
Is that getting better,
or is it still a pain?
>> It's not been a pain.
I mean, you literally, I think you saw
it at the very beginning, when we create
a new project, we had an XCode update,
which basically broke the template.
So things like that will happen, but
they usually like one small thing and
it commutable sorted out super quickly.